
# Designing for Executive Dysfunction: Reviewing Mobile Device User Interfaces for Adults with Autism and Dementia

Executive dysfunction is a set of symptoms indicative of disruption to cognitive processes that affect an individual’s working memory and attention span. Individuals diagnosed with developmental disorders such as autism spectrum disorder (ASD) or neurodegenerative conditions such as Alzheimer’s dementia (AD) are likely to experience executive dysfunction. With the ubiquity of smartphones and tablet devices, such individuals are increasingly relying on assistive applications on these devices. Prior work on understanding the interface design needs of these applications cater to individual diagnoses and demographics rather than aiming to accommodate wider populations that may experience similar symptoms. We fill this gap by conducting a literature review on the design needs and preferences of adults with executive dysfunction symptoms caused by either ASD or AD. Our qualitative data analysis with ten publications revealed four categories of mutual needs between the two populations and only one conflicting need. Based on these findings, we synthesized a list of 27 interface design guidelines in applications designed for adults with executive dysfunction.

# Usability Evaluation of E-Commerce Mobile Application Interfaces for Senior Users Using Nielsen's Heuristics

In the current world of the internet, mobile phones, and e-commerce, one cannot ignore the elderly users who can benefit from all this technology. The reduced mobility with age and getting goods delivered to the doorsteps is one of the great ways to solve elderly problems. Poor usability affects and impairs elderly users more than it affects younger people. Understanding the usability issues of these users will help improve the user experience for everyone. There is literature that helps designers understand the problems elderly users face and how to design a user interface. But there are very few studies about the design of an e-commerce application. This study is to understand and explore how cognitive impairment affects senior users, how they use e-commerce applications, and what designers do to solve their problems. 

# Impact of Covid-19 on Software Developers

This study is to understand if work-from-home due to covid-19 has impacted software developers. This study is to understand how it affects the health, productivity, and well-being of the developers. Since it will be almost 2 years since the software industry has moved to work from home it is important to know how the employees are feeling about this. There are also talks of the software industry going permanently remote, so this makes the problem important to address. I will take a survey in form of a questionnaire of the software developers in different countries. This survey can help draw common findings that are affecting the health, productivity, and well-being of the developers. This finding also can help companies take care of their employees. The evaluation of this research can be done based on the survey results and the usefulness of the conclusion/findings.
Research question: How is working from home during the COVID-19 pandemic affecting software developers’ emotional wellbeing and productivity?
To address this question, I generate and evaluate a theoretical model for explaining and predicting changes in wellbeing and productivity while working from home during a crisis. Moreover, I provide recommendations for professionals and organizations to support employees who are working from home due to COVID-19 or future disasters.